It seems that so often we have
to be taken to the brink of death
before a great transformation begins.
Sheila Gilette was on her deathbed,
lungs no longer working after giving birth.
It was then she declared she would
do anything to live to raise her child.
Soon after, which is now 40 years ago,
she was contacted by beings from another dimension
who identified themselves as the Theo Group.
Sheila, you are probably the most
long-standing,
publicly known channeler
at this point in time, certainly in America, that I know of.
And I'm sure there have been other women
who might be in their 80s and 90s who have been doing this,
but in terms of a public entity who has been sharing
this ability with people of the planet,
you've been at this for four decades.
And, from a time
when it wasn't so politically easy
or popular to come out and say, "I'm a channeler."
So I want people to get to know you a little bit.
How'd this all begin?
I know you had your epiphany,
you had your near-death experience,
let's talk about what your life was like before,
during the transition, and after.
Well, I was young, and I had--
I was a stay-at-home mom,
I had two small children at home,
and I went into the hospital
to birth my third child,
and I had a pulmonary embolism
after the birth of the child,
which allowed my lungs to become non-functional,
and I was in intensive care,
and neither one of my lungs
were functional, I had about a fourth of an inch of one lung
that I could breathe with, and my family was
being prepared for my death,
they just didn't think I'd make it through the day.
And I was in intensive care and I was laying in the bed
and I knew if I closed my eyes, I wouldn't open them again,
so I just laid there, and my mantra was,
"Hey, God, give me a job."
I wanted to stay on the planet for my children,
I just had a new baby, and it was,
"Just give me a job, I'll do anything.
"Just give me a job, I want to stay here."
And then I saw some movement at the end of my bed,
and this light came in the room,
as if the sun had risen in the room itself,
and I was kind of blinking back tears,
as you can imagine with a bright light like that,
and I saw movement at the end of the bed,
and Jesus was standing there.
I went, whoa, you know, oh my!
And I kept looking at Him, and I was just mesmerized
by His eyes, but then my mind started going,
"Well, your hair is shorter," and it was
about chin-length, and it was auburn.
In all the pictures I saw as a child,
in churches and things were blonde, blue-eyed Jesus.
And His eyes were hazel, and very loving,
and He had on a robe that had big sleeves in it,
and He crossed His hands under the sleeves,
and when He did that, He looked at me and He smiled,
and when He did that, it felt like the top of my head opened
up and warm honey was poured in,
because it just felt like this warmth
started seeping through my body,
and I couldn't take a deep breath,
I felt like I had an elephant sitting on my chest.
So as this warmth came down through my body,
I felt like I could go, gasp, and take a deep breath.
And when this was all happening,
I heard in my head, not externally, as we hear each other,
but in my head, I heard a very distinct male voice
say to me, "Remember, My child, you are loved."
And it was just like, oh.
And that was it, but it was just this moment in time
I will never forget, it hasn't faded in my memory.
As I speak to you of it now, it's as if it just happened,
it's that clear.
And it was a miraculous healing.
And people talk about the bright light,
well, I had the bright light, and I had Jesus there,
but I didn't have the tunnel, but I had several experiences
that the near-death experience studies have shown
there are about 12 things that people experience,
not all 12 of them, when they have a near-death experience.
Well, I didn't speak of this to others,
because I thought, well, they'll think I'm crazy,
and I was like, why me?
Did anyone in the medical profession
wonder why such a spontaneous healing
had occurred under the circumstances?
Well, they were surprised, they were very surprised,
and for years, I don't know if they still do,
but at the hospital I was in, in Denver,
they had the lung scans that they did
as teaching tools, to say, did this patient live or die,
but when I was strong enough
to be out of the hospital,
I was in the hospital for a month,
and I got home about six months after that,
I had all kinds of psychic phenomena happening to me,
through me, internal, external,
I could automatic write, I could do telekinesis,
I could look at something and move it,
I had clairaudience, I could hear messages being given to me
and then I trance spontaneously.
But when spirit wanted to speak to me,
I would be sitting in a chair, and it would
physically move as if someone very large was shaking it.
And at one point, I was asked, "I'm here, can you feel me?"
It was like, whoa.
Well, yeah, it was shaking the chair.
And I had, my bed levitated at night,
and some real unusual things.
It was frightening, but deep down, inside of myself,
I knew, I knew that I was being prepared
for this job I'd asked for.
And then when I started having the direct voice
coming through me, it wasn't called channeling then.
Transmediumship.
I was a medium, transmedium,
and then over the years, I would,
I would not hear all the words, but now I do,
and I think it's been the process of my own personal growth,
of letting go of the responsibility, of feeling
like I can control the information, which I cannot.
Or like you have to be right.
Or this person has, oh, yeah,
yeah, and that the person is getting perfect information,
well, of course we are.
You know, and a lot of people's lives were changed
over these years, and that was a--
you know, I took that as a huge responsibility as well,
but then I had to realize
that I'm just the vehicle
for this fabulous information
that's being given for the shift event of consciousness
on our planet, and that I volunteered,
I stepped up to the plate and said,
and of course the angels said, "Okay, you're on."
And my body, as I was told--
the first spokesman was Orlos,
and was with me for about three years,
and I was told all along that I was
being prepared for higher teachers to come.
So you're saying that the being you
were speaking to was named?
Orlos, but as an initiator.
Orlos was very soft-spoken, very loving.
Had Theo come through in the beginning,
because when they came through, when Orlos,
I went into trance
to invite Orlos in to speak,
and for a reading that someone had mailed some questions,
and Orlos said, "It's time, and higher teachers are here."
And I was told that my body was being shifted
in the electromagnetic field, on a cellular level,
to be able to merge with this energy that was so strong,
and when Theo came in, oh, my gosh.
Theo is quite a force.
Yes, but Theo softened, softened.
The being, the collective had softened?
When Theo came in the first time,
it was as if the windows would have shaken,
the voice was so loud, and I felt this tingling
in my upper body, through my neck and my head.
You know when you hit your elbow
and you have that tingling that's really uncomfortable?
That's what I felt in my whole upper body when they came in,
and it was like, oh, my gosh.
And this is a no-nonsense--
This is no-nonsense, and they sounded very computer-like,
with no emotion, very staccato, almost,
and it was like, oh, my gosh, had they come in
in the beginning, I would have been too afraid.
But when they did, I didn't hear it
like others heard it either, so, you know,
but it was, it shook up a few people.
Yeah, quite shocking to your girlfriends.
Let's hang around and meet the friends for the first time.
And I had an office one time,
across the hall from a psychotherapist,
and she came and knocked on my door one time,
and she said, "Could you ask Theo to be a little quieter,
"because we can hear you through the walls."
(chuckling)
So it was quite loud, Theo softened,
and has actually become
more human-like in that sense,
because they've not been embodied,
they're learning through us the human experience.
So it's been quite the ride.
And it's interesting,
because they have to find the very specific words,
and it's more dictionary-like, we were talking about this
off-camera, where we might have
come to understand a word in a colloquial sense,
and that's not necessarily what they mean
when they're speaking, they're being quite literal,
you almost need to refer to the dictionary
if you want to have the exact interpretation
of what's being said, because that's--
it sounds like that's the portal through which
they can communicate, be very clear with their language.
They're very clear with what they have to say to us,
and they don't use a lot of extraneous words.
They're very direct with what they have to say,
and I learned, you know, a sentence would be stated,
and I'd go, "Well, I think I know what that means,
"but that way, it doesn't make too much sense to me,"
and that's when I started getting the dictionary,
and it just was so enlightening,
it was like, oh, my gosh, I didn't know
what that word really was until it was used in this context.
So it was interesting,
even in the new book,
The Soul Truth: Guide to Inner Peace,
when the editors at Tarcher
were going through the book,
Theo used a word,
cognation, instead of cognition,
and the editors there called and said, "Is that a real word?
"Did they make that up?"
And it was, it's a cognitive kind of experience,
and I can't remember the exact sentence right now,
but I thought it was so funny,
they came back and they said,
"You've got to change this word, it's not a real--"
and we said, "Oh, yeah, it's a real word."
You know, so they're, like, they take this information--
my vocabulary has grown tremendously
with working with Theo,
because they use words I never would use
in my every day life, that I use now
because they've taught them to me.
Well, I mean, we could launch
into so many areas, I think I'm going to skip past--
we would have to go back a bit, and go to,
let's get into the definitions,
a lot of people today call themselves channelers.
A lot of people, I mean, thousands and thousands of people,
"Oh, yes, I started channeling the other day."
What is the difference between channeling, mediumship,
and doing a reading, say, an intuitive reading for someone?
How would you define?
Well, in my personal experience,
I'm a medium, I've never cared much
for the terminology of channeling.
You know, I don't understand it, what does that mean?
And so what I've come to think of as--
a channeling is maybe, and it may be just for you,
information that is given to you,
maybe through writing or it could be music,
that you're just downloading into your own experience.
What I do is that
the angels actually take my body
and speak directly through me, through my vocal cords.
They're limited to my language,
I'm hoping to learn other languages,
because I know they can speak those as well,
but they've said, they use what I have,
they use my resources, yes,
but it's very engaging,
where they take full control,
I don't have any influence over the information.
And I think there are, in some circumstances,
people who channeled, it can get distorted,
because it comes through their own mental processes,
and their own personal experience.
Their own filters.
Yeah, their own filters.
And then, intuitive readings, as card readers,
or astrologers, I think there are very good people
that do that, but they're impressions,
they're intuitive impressions that they receive
through their own filters as well,
and I think, for me, the definition
between the mediumship and intuition
is that, as I said,
my filter isn't involved.
The information comes directly through them,
and in fact, I had, you know, years ago,
before I really started releasing
and just letting go totally.
There was one lady that was having
a session with Theo, and I kept thinking,
"Well, that's not right, that's not right."
I was just going to ask you that.
And, you know, my good ideas
were totally off-base,
and what they gave her was perfect for her life.
So you're hearing it as it's coming
out of your mouth, you don't have a chance
to audit or edit or anything, of course--
And it comes so quickly.
You're thinking, "My God,
"that doesn't sound right," so you have your own judgement--
Well, and years ago, you know,
I'm a witnesser, just as everybody else,
so I just stand aside and listen,
and, you know,
I'll hear them telling somebody something,
and then I know, you know, years ago,
it's going to blow their life wide open,
and I'm going, "Oh, no, here it comes."
You know, but it's perfect for them.
You know, nobody's ever given anything they can't handle,
because it's all question-activated,
because in the asking, it will be given.
They do not usurp people's free will,
and if you're ready to ask the question,
you're ready to hear the answer, you may not like it.
You know, some people would ask a question,
and they wouldn't hear exactly what they wanted to hear,
so they would rephrase it and ask it again,
and, periodically, Theo would say,
"We've already answered that."
Right, now, is there--
do you have a sense that
there are times when someone,
the person asking the question,
that they're present enough, they've shown up,
they're asking the questions,
so something is driving them to do that,
but maybe their knowledge base
isn't such that they could understand
the answer in its full form,
do you find that sometimes that Theo
will simplify, for example,
for a particular individual asking
or is it pretty much meted out the same regardless?
Maybe they do, but what I've found with Theo
is that their information is multi-level,
multi-dimensional, as well, because you can listen
to the session
and you glean what you glean from it
in that moment, with your perceptions
in that moment, then you can listen to it six months later,
a year later, five years later,
and you get so much more out of it,
because you've lived into the understanding.
But you get what you get at whatever
level you are at the moment.
I had a lady, one time in a session,
that Theo said to her, at the end of the session, they said,
"You're going to put this away for two years,
"and you will not listen to it."
I got a call from her, it was almost two years to the day,
and she said, "I think I need another reading.
"I found this reading in the drawer,
"and they were absolutely right."
But she didn't hear it at the time when they said that.
And she found it in the drawer, listened to it,
and heard, "You're going to put this away,
"you won't pay any attention to it for two years,"
and it was almost two years to the day that she found it,
and called and said, "I think I need to talk to them."
Until she was really ready to hear it.
Yeah, she wasn't really ready, and...
How many people are looking for real knowledge?
You know what I'm saying, versus,
that, quote, validation, wanting to hear that they're
already correct, and all their perceptions are right,
and they're already on the right track.
You know, some people go to readings
just to hear how great everything is already lined up,
versus people who really, really want to know.
Well, that's--
they're both good,
because people are opening up very quickly right now.
And so, what I have found that people will come to Theo
and they get affirmed,
and confirmed in their own knowing,
which we need, to know we're on the right track,
but as we go through those questions of our everyday life,
and we get those satisfied, then people go
into the broader questions, the bigger things,
and now, with Theo's teaching of soul integration,
people are really doing their work,
and if they're not willing to, they don't come to Theo.
But it's taken a lot of years,
Theo's been way ahead of the curve,
and when The Fifth Dimension came out--
It was mid-80s?
It was '88, December of '88.
I thought it was metaphysics, parapsychology 101,
spirituality 101, that everybody knew this stuff.
And people would say, "I had to read it
"five times to understand."
Well, you've been at it for,
what, 19 years at that point?
So, yes, it would be 101 for you,
but that was still quite revolutionary 20 years ago.
It was, and it still is today.
It's very, it's pertinent information for right now,
and then with the book, The Soul Truth,
it's really giving people tools to get in touch
and to really integrate themselves,
so that they're open and receptive
to their own masterhood or to their own guidance,
and trusting themselves, and not getting caught up
into the day-to-day circumstances, because that's what we do
and then we react from the fragmented aspects of ourselves
rather than our wholeness, and when we come
into that fullness of ourselves,
no matter what's happening in the outer world, to us,
or situations and circumstances are always going to occur,
I mean, that's part of life,
but it's how we deal with them that changes.
And people say, "I want to be happy, I want to be happy."
Well, what does that mean?
The word happy is from happenstance,
something happens and then you can be happy.
Well, really what people are looking for is
being peaceful inside, being comfortable in their own skin,
and when you integrate and bring in all those
little fragmented aspects of ourself that
really run the show, I mean, they're the real
emotional ones that run our lives,
when we comfort them and let them know
that we're not abandoning them and they have a voice,
and we understand, we're conscious of them,
then we find that peace,
and we can respond differently to those situations.
So people are driven by every kind
of question imaginable to find their way to you,
and through the years, a number of people
have found their way, because they, too,
were feeling as though there might be something
knocking on their door, trying to get their attention,
and also, to Esther Hicks, now, Esther has become
quite well known in this field,
and you were her mentor, you're--
channeling with you, she was coming to your sessions,
as I understand it, right?
Yes, she and her husband, Jerry,
came from private sessions.
And they were told by Theo,
"You two can do this."
And this hasn't been an uncommon message, per se,
but she really embraced it, she just went
with full vigor and took it on, and then--
She did, she stepped out of her fear,
because it scared her, as it does most people.
But she was compelled.
And I have to tell you, I'm just thrilled
with all the success that they've had,
and the amount of people they've touched,
because people need to have
a place to feel safe,
and Abraham's information has drawn people in,
in many ways that never would have,
never would have touched the subject.
It's been a good launching pad for them,
to really open spiritually,
so it just makes my heart happy to see
that this has been happening,
and that Theo has been a part of that experience.
Yes, helping give her the understanding
and confidence to know that she could do this.
And Jerry, as well, working with her as her partner.
And there are other people who have come to you,
and a similar thing, I assume, has happened,
where they've opened up their own
mediumship abilities or intuitive abilities?
Intuitive and healing, you know, because it'll express
in whatever way is comfortable for you,
it has to be emotionally and psychologically comfortable,
or you won't do it, and some people
use their intuitive abilities to heal,
and to move energy, and actually,
they're just a conduit to the energy
and focusing the person feels themselves,
but they're, you know, it's a collaboration
between the person seeking the balancing
and the person that does the balancing,
so it expresses that way, artists,
it expresses in painting and sculpture
and music and writing,
so each in their own way have that conduit
to their higher self, their soul,
and the guidance that is present.
And it must be really beautiful when you see
someone who has come in, who is severely disconnected
from their true self, and not happy,
not happy with the life they've created,
and it must be very satisfying when, for you,
when they find out, "Well, my dear,
"it's because this isn't who, this isn't what you came
"to do, this isn't your particular skillset
"that you came to develop that you're working in."
And to have them make that discovery alongside you.
You must hear a lot of these stories where
they blossom into an entirely new life
after being exposed to the information.
Yes, they do, they do,
and Theo doesn't tell us what to do,
which is a lovely thing, they lead us in a direction
that's for our highest good.
And I know, I've been challenged in my life,
and Theo's told me, do this, or go this direction,
or encouraged it, let's say,
and I have and it's been hard, it's been challenging,
and I'm thinking, well, why did Theo tell me that, you know?
But it's been the best thing for me,
and it's, you know, I've gained so much for it, or from it.
And so it's really interesting.
Now, they're here, they're teachers, they're mentors,
they're not to give us the answer, we're to find the answer.
But they can give us the path, they can give us the insights
to lead us and to help us along that way,
as true teachers do.
You were saying that Theo doesn't give the answers,
but will essentially give enough information
that a person can make their own intelligent decision,
and that's true, people, human beings are insecure,
a lot of times we want it handed to us on a silver platter,
and that's what I really like about the work of Theo,
is that it's really oriented toward
taking personal responsibility,
toward your own sovereignty and understanding,
if you've seen this in your life,
it's because you somehow put it there,
you have allowed this to develop,
or you have chosen for this to develop.
Is this something that you're seeing a fair amount of now?
I mean, moving forward, a number of years,
kind of a shift in that willingness
of human beings to take more personal responsibility?
Absolutely, people are really
coming now more,
wanting to have this experience from within.
They have already started having personal experiences,
they're taking their responsibility, they want to grow,
they want to be the best they can be,
and so they're taking the teachings now
and saying, "This is changing my life."
rather than putting it onto Theo
to make the decisions for them,
and that's exciting for me, it's really exciting for me
to see this change, because, in these four decades,
I've changed tremendously, and learned a lot,
and changed within, and it's a continual process of growth.
Every time I do a session with Theo, I get new information,
it's not just static, it's not, you know,
the same old, same old, there's--
as we're ready to hear, there's more information,
more guidance to be given.
And I like what Marcus has to say, oftentimes he says,
"We're only limited by our curiosity and intellect,
"because the answers are there
"if you're willing to ask the questions."
So he's a question-asker kind of guy,
which is great for me, because I'm constantly learning,
I can't think of all the questions,
and like I said, even with personal sessions, I'm learning.
They may say the same thing to somebody,
only in a different way, that I hear.
I can hear it that way, so it's interesting.
Well, now, this would also,
the fact that people are open and they really want
to have their experience and take personal responsibility
also speaks to the original work, from the 80s,
your book, The Fifth Dimension.
And now, at this time, very few people were really
talking about dimensions, and even a smaller percentage
actually had any notion of what that might even mean.
Now, a few were quantum physicists, it was being
bandied about more in the circles of quantum physics
than among human beings on a spiritual level.
So can we talk about that a little bit now,
what came through when you were told
the basis of the book, back in the 80s,
to what you're seeing manifest now,
because they talked about this.
Yes, they were talking about 2012,
they were the first to talk about 2012,
it was before José Argüelles wrote his book
about the Mayan calendar, Theo was talking about 2012
and the changes and that fifth dimensionary energy
is that energy that would be in place now.
So it was talking about the world changes
and the dimensions are, the third dimension is that,
which is our physical reality.
The fourth, as they stated, was our spiritual awakening,
recognizing that we were more than this physical existence,
that we had souls, that we had intuitive abilities,
and the fifth is the full expression of learning
how to use our masterhood, because Theo says
we humans have always come from a shamanic background,
and that we're going back to that,
to recognizing that power within ourselves,
and they say there are 12 dimensions about the Earth,
six of which we will experience in our lifetime,
in this human body, which is quite profound,
because there's tremendous, we're living longer,
and that's why, our lifespan is longer and getting longer,
so we live many lifetimes in one body now.
So it's a fascinating experience, but if we get too far
out there, we don't stay in the moment of our expression,
and so they're always saying, "Stay present,
"stay in the now," they use "now" very profoundly
in the meditations, because it draws us back
to this moment, which is our true life,
we don't have more than now,
and if we're too far into the future,
often times that throws people into fear,
and if we're too far in the past,
that's sometimes anger and regret,
and so if we're in the now, we pay attention to it,
we recognize that we're living our life fully,
and we can change in that moment,
and that's what I'm seeing people do.
This is more having to do
with that mastery of consciousness,
and this is something that is so bandied about and debated,
and certainly on the Internet,
to know we're ascending into a fifth-dimensional status
where we become light and we all go together,
and that's it, we are now semi-transparent beings,
no need for food and water, and each other, for that matter,
and that's not what you're talking about.
No, no.
What Theo is talking about, and the teachings are,
is that we become who we are,
we become totally soul-integrated,
meaning that we have the abilities and the awarenesses
to use all the skills that we've had
over lifetimes on this planet.
It's relative to the Earth.
The Earth is one choice of incarnation.
There are billions of choices,
of multidimensional experiences.
This is just one choice, and they say
that this choice is about emotions, learning emotions,
and interacting with each other,
and they've also told us that they
learn the human experience through us,
so it's a nice exchange that we have together,
which I like, you know, because somebody
asked Theo one time, "What's in it for you?"
you know, and that's what they said:
"We learn the human experience through you."
What are some of the signatures
that you've been seeing evolve over time
through the information, when people say, oh,
well, for example, "Oh, geez, I've had this
"horrible ringing in my ears," and so on,
that and others, what are some of the hallmark signs
of people shifting their awareness,
or maybe even their density, a bit,
to be able to elevate their frequency,
to open to new information,
what's some of what you're seeing, or they're talking about?
Well, they're talking about physical experiences,
when the shift happens, sometimes,
oftentimes, it can be a shift in diet,
your digestive system becomes more sensitive,
you have, as you said, the ringing in the ears is a shift
of frequency, sometimes it's a feeling of congestion,
like when you go up in a plane or you go
into a high altitude and your ears shut down,
and then your body has to adjust to that altitude,
it can be similar to that.
I myself at times feel as if there is a band,
like a headband around my head, that's very tight,
and then sometimes I just feel like my head
isn't big enough to contain my insides,
like it's tight inside, like I could just break out.
So there are different things like that.
When this all started happening to me,
and when Orlos came in, in the beginning,
it was quite gentle, because I needed that gentle prodding,
and then when Theo came through,
I felt that intense shift, like I said,
that feeling you get when you hit your elbow
that's uncomfortable, that buzzing sensation,
and I thought, oh, my gosh, I'm not going to do this,
if this continues, I can't stand it,
and I was assured that it wouldn't last long.
Well, it lasted for about a week,
which was way too long in my estimation.
But I haven't had that intense an experience,
they're much more subtle than that,
it's the ringing in the ears or the fullness
or that altitude feeling, or maybe a dizziness,
sometimes you feel dizzy, and I've had,
at different times, where I can sit
and meditate, and I feel like I'm spinning inside,
as if I'm going to just take off through my crown.
So there are different kinds of things
that you may feel, physically,
and that, people get afraid of that.
They think, oh, there's something wrong,
and sometimes people feel congested
or heart palpitations or things like that
when there's the quickening happening,
and they think there's something physically wrong with them,
it's just an adjustment frequency.
And as people start relaxing and embodying,
well, essentially, we're on the path of embodying ourselves,
I mean, connecting with ourselves and knowing ourselves.
What do you see as--
do you have any readings or channelings
that you are particularly fond of in the past,
where a person has opened to themselves
that you'd like to share, could you share a couple?
I love anecdotes.
It's...
You mean, "ah has."
Yeah, the "ah has," a couple
of "ah has" on this journey of awakening,
because so many people are right on the precipice of it now.
I'm hearing a lot from people who are doing
the soul integrative work, and they're finding these
little fragmented parts of themselves that
have influenced their lives all along,
and they're bringing them home,
and what a wonderful feeling that is,
that they've gotten the revelation
of the core circumstance that occurred
for beliefs about not being good enough,
not being lovable enough, occurred,
that block them from receiving all their dreams and desires.
So they've realized those core situations.
Sometimes, they can be horrific,
they can be a very abused situation, or not,
but it's so personal to them that they'll go, ah,
and I know I've had this experience myself.
"Now I understand."
You know, many people go in and think
they're going to find out that they're as bad
as they think they are, and it's just the opposite
that they find, they find this wonderful being
that's within themselves, and all these little orphans,
or fragmented aspects, want to be heard,
number one, they want to be recognized,
and when you become conscious that they're there,
then your reaction to life changes dramatically,
and I'm hearing a lot about that.
And, in my personal life, you know,
when you look back on,
"Gosh, I'm reacting to the same stimulus
"a lot differently than I used to,
"I don't get angry, or I, you know,
"don't run down the hall and slam the door,
"I stay present in the conversation."
You know, whatever your modality
of protection would be with the little orphan,
we begin to be familiar with how we've been,
and we stay more present with our experience,
so I'm hearing a lot of people's stories
about those kinds of things, which is what it's all about.
Yes, the process of awakening or awareness.
Consciousness.
Can we talk about some of the larger
energies that are in motion, because,
back in the 80s, there was talking about,
there would be geopolitical changes coming
at this time on the planet,
there would be changes in the way we do commerce,
there would be changes in currencies, and so forth.
This is a very frightening scenario to a lot of people,
but if you don't mind, I would like it
if you would share what Theo has been telling you
over time about what we, as a species,
are striving to move into at this point in time.
Well, what we're striving for
is peace in the world, ultimately.
Now, we think, oh, that can never happen,
judging from what's going on in the world,
but what they talk about is, as we have the information,
technology has given us the ability
to touch one another's lives globally.
In a second, we can see what is happening
around the world, we see the earthquake in Chile
and the earthquake in Haiti,
and we see the cyclone that hit Malamar,
is that how you pronounce it, I'm not sure,
that we never knew before.
Our technology is such that we can see each other,
and when we begin to learn about each other
and each other's cultures, we become less fearful,
knowledge is powerful, and we become less fearful
of us and them, we can see that a mother loves her child
and doesn't want them to be shot in a war,
or, you know, we can see the devastation
of an earthquake and we want to help.
Our nature is to help each other,
and so the technology
will just increase that ability
to communicate with each other around the world.
When we do that, we see our commonalities
and not so much of our differences,
and the us-and-them kind of thing will stop.
But also, Theo talked about in the late 70s, early 80s,
when writing the book, The Fifth Dimension,
that, in 2012, this was a culmination
of fifth dimensionary energy, we would see
political structures dissolving, new political structures
being made in a global way, which is much like the UN,
but stronger in purpose, and communication happening,
and that world leaders would change
and be more communicative.
Now we have President Obama,
and he is not a nationalist, he's a globalist,
and we'll see more and more of that,
a global economic structure.
These are the changes that we will be seeing,
and when we saw this collapse economically,
we saw it didn't just touch the United States,
it touched every country of the world.
It's already a global economy,
we just operate in different currencies.
And what will come from this is a currency
that will help everybody, because there will
be abundance around the world,
and we'll be using resources together
in a more appropriate way,
so I find it an exciting time, not a fearful time,
because much of this
has been foretold to me,
and to others through the book,
but it's exciting for me to see these
confirmations coming forward.
When The Fifth Dimension came out,
they were talking about
the Communistic countries,
they were talking about the wall in Berlin coming down.
I could not imagine that happening,
but they said this transformation
would begin in the Baltic States.
Well, I didn't realize that Germany was a Baltic State,
until I went there to teach, and I stood
on the Baltic Sea in East Germany.
That was after the wall came down,
but it was so enlightening to me
and exciting to me
to have had that told in the book.
I'm personally going, "How's that going to happen?"
You know, and then it did,
and they said it would be by the people,
and that was exactly what happened:
the people stood up
and Russia bolted,
and all of those Baltic States and all
became their own countries again,
and it's just been a fascinating process
of unfoldment for me, conformationally speaking.
Yes, because it was foretold,
and yet, at the same time, when you look
at where people are right now,
because we haven't quite,
we haven't quite perfected that, the peace portion,
and there is still so much that has not aligned itself
with what we're moving into, that when people hear
the word globalization, global economy,
it's very difficult for people sitting,
from where they are right now,
watching the rampant greed and so forth,
yet comfortable with the notion
that some of these players are the ones
that might be controlling those economies,
and that then it becomes a fear scenario,
and it's hard to see past that into
the little,
perhaps little more distant future,
in which some of this has already come to pass
and has started righting itself.
What can you say about this awkward growth phase,
this adolescent phase that we're in, and it is awkward.
What's giving your power away?
And that's, people go into fear
because they don't take responsibility for their own lives.
All of this greed that went on,
people jumped on the bandwagon.
You know, it's kind of like, people that knew
they couldn't afford the houses that they bought,
they have some culpability there.
You know, they turned a blind eye because they were
making all this money in the stock market,
and, "Oh, I'm getting all this reward,"
and then, "Oh, it's those guys,
"those guys took advantage of me."
But deep down, we know when something's askew.
We're not victims, Theo said,
"We're not victims here, we're volunteers."
We all volunteered.
We're volunteers here, we stood up and said,
"I want to go there," and so whatever's happening
in our lives, we co-created,
and we have to get off the pity-pot,
we have to not say, "Why me, why me?"
I mean, just--
let's not even ask that question
because it doesn't matter.
What matters is, what are you gonna do about it?
Are you going to take responsibility?
Are you going to pay attention to your own intuitive knowing
or are you going to let somebody else control your life,
and control your finances, and control your choices?
Because then, you know, the blame game stops,
you know, it's, then--
what was it, you know, the statement,
"We have nothing to fear but fear itself."
It holds today, it's true.
Well, we'd have to look if the world at large
is suffering from a particular condition
that it has to be holographic in nature.
Of course.
We are containing the same elements in ourselves,
when have we not each experienced greedy moments?
Of course.
Or uncharitable, judgemental,
hateful, violent thoughts?
And so we see this reflected in the world around us,
and it's easy to point fingers
if you didn't pull the trigger.
Well, Theo says, and I love this statement,
"Deal with the terrorist within,
"and there will be no terrorists without."
And that's where we're going,
as if we come into that wholeness within ourselves,
and they, because they're such wordsmiths,
this is another thing that I like, they'll say,
"Come into the wholeness of yourself."
And it's true with wholeness,
W-H-O-L-E-N-E-S-S, wholeness,
it's recognizing the divinity and perfection that we are.
So we need to be
a little bit patient with ourselves,
we need to maybe not be quite as critical of ourselves,
which will in turn eliminate the need to be so critical
of each other, so these really basic principles
that have been introduced on the planet
thousands of years ago, that we're still trying
to grow our way into, are really coming home right now.
Truly, truly, and you know, as you do your work,
and as your recognize your challenges
as opportunities of growth
and you embrace them rather than resist them,
then it's all about learning compassion.
It really, truly is.
I remember going through a particularly difficult time
in my life, going, "Why do I have to do this?"
And Theo said to me, "You cannot be a teacher
"unless you know from your own experience
"what others may feel," and that's really true,
because how can you--
oh, they said also, "You cannot judge another's experience,
"for you don't know what their soul's path is."
And that's been a huge learning for me.
You know, and it goes back
to that same, "judge lest you be judged,"
it's true, you know, you point the finger at somebody,
you have three pointing back at you.
You know, look at those aspects of yourself
that you're mirroring from another.
Absolutely.
That's critical, we all do it,
we're all really in varying stages of learning
how detrimental it is to our own soul's growth
to be judging another's experience.
I mean, as reprehensible as we deem someone's behavior
to be, we don't know that that's not actually
quite a leap forward in their own, personal evolution
from a time in the past, perhaps.
You don't know where we are,
no one knows where anyone is on their trajectory,
and even the other way around, someone might
appear to have it all and actually be,
you know, not living up to what their own
personal agreements with themselves are.
That's true.
There's no point either way.
Just let it be and work on ourselves.
Yeah, if we focus on ourselves,
the rest will take care of itself.
Yes, I have one other--
now, this is more of an external,
because many people feel that a lot
of the opportunity for this kind
of financial strife on the planet
is tied to energy sources, and if we get our energy sources
squared away, in other words,
something a little more sustainable, for example,
that some of the problems, some of the geopolitical
problems would drop away.
And back when, Theo did talk
about the development of new energy sources.
Any new information on that?
This is just a fun one, because I know
we're starting to get close to our time here.
Well, yes, there has always been alternative energies
that have brought in new jobs,
and, as we know,
technology was one leap for mankind,
if you would, and now we have the green resources
or energies, the wind energies, and the solar energies,
and they were touched on a little bit,
but now it's becoming more prominent
and knowing that we need to have these other resources
and new jobs are being brought forth with that,
as others drop away that don't serve us anymore.
So we've had all of these ages of change
and so this is just another one,
we don't have to be afraid of it,
we need to work within it, and with it,
and be malleable, if you would,
to changing ourselves and accept it,
and really looking to other areas
of work, if we're needing work,
and enjoying the process of learning something new.
Yes, any final thoughts
of maybe a dominant theme or message
that's emerging right now,
as the collective asks their questions of Theo?
Well, the dominant message of Theo's teaching now
is the soul integrational process
of really coming into the wholeness of yourself,
and that seems a predominant thing,
and they're teaching to individuals
as well as groups that they speak to,
and then the radio show, it always comes back to that
personal responsibility, and as we take care of that,
it's like they talk about, really,
the dealing with the terrorist within ourselves,
because really all of our fears
and our emotional reactions are triggered
by these aspects of ourself that haven't been
integrated into and and accepted or heard,
so that seems to be Theo's theme now,
because that is where the future lies,
as we come into peace within ourselves,
we'll have peace in the world and acceptance of each other.
Yes, and that book
is called Soul Truth: Guide to Inner Peace,
and it's available in an audio book, as well.
Not as yet, we have some
that we only have for when we do public speaking,
but it is at Amazon, or you can go
to a link on our website, AskTheo.com, and we
have a link to Amazon which it can be ordered through.
Well, it seems like it is time to know thyself,
no doubt about it, and it sounds like
this is a very useful guide
in that phase of our journey right now,
which we're all going through together,
whether we like it or not.
Might as well get to know ourselves.
We might as well hold our hands.
Absolutely.
Sheila, thank you so much for your time,
I'm glad we had a chance to finally meet.
You felt like a friend and sister the moment
I laid eyes on you, even when I was reading your book,
I felt like I already knew you.
But it's good to see each other's eyeballs.
It's nice to see you again.
Yes.
Sheila and her work with Theo have given guidance
to thousands of people over the past 40 years,
including a then-young and eager Esther Hicks,
which set Esther on her path to bringing through Abraham.
Sheila has a weekly radio show in which
she does live channelings, books, and CDs,
and does live workshops as well.
You can find all of her work at AskTheo.com.
Until next itme, thanks for watching CMN.